Hi everyone, before we start this week's show, just so you don't think that Anna has suddenly
affected a East London accent, she is still away and in her stead this week we have the
absolutely fantastically funny, brilliant, smart, amazing comedian Sarah Pasco.
Now Sarah has a book that's just come out in paperback, it's called Sex Power Money
and that book has an accompanying podcast which is also called Sex Power Money which
you can find in all your normal podcast providers. Both of those things are absolutely brilliant,
you should definitely check them out but for now, on with the podcast.
Hello and welcome to another episode of No Such Thing As A Fish, a weekly podcast coming to you
from four undisclosed locations in the UK. My name is Dan Schreiber, I am sitting here with Andrew
Hunter Murray, James Harkin and special guest Sarah Pasco and once again we have gathered
around the microphones with our four favourite facts from the last seven days and in no particular
order here we go. Starting with you, Sarah. Hello everybody, my fact is for 15 years German police
hunted a serial killer who didn't exist. Wow, amazing. It is amazing but it's also quite dark,
it does involve things like murders, so it isn't like a trigger warning but I know that your show
is sometimes just like 'oh this ladybird bought a hat' so if anyone is listening... I think you're
confusing us with play school. Yeah I mean more like this ladybird looks like she bought a hat
but actually it's a very interesting evolutionary shadow. So I just wanted to say to people who
are listening like if there are children I'm not going to go into any great detail about murders
but it does mention murders. So in 2007 two police officers were shot in Hellbron so obviously it's
terrible a 22 year old female officer is killed and her male colleague was badly injured. Now they
found the DNA of the killer at the scene and they ran it through a database where obviously DNA has
been stored from other crimes and they found multiple matches. In 2001 a 61 year old furniture
dealer in Freiburg Germany had been murdered by strangulation and the DNA of the killer of the
police was found in his apartment and so this is completely befuddling for the police because this
is completely different MO, this is a manual strangulation of a furniture dealer and then this
murder of the police which seemed to be completely different because they couldn't connect the reasons
why you would commit those murders. This becomes even more confusing when they found a match to a
very very cold case from 1993 a 62 year old woman and again a different murder MO. They tried to
find links between those two victims the 61 year old and the 62 year old but they weren't connected
in any way at all. So they've got a serial killer and it turns out from this DNA that this is a woman
which is incredibly rare to have a female serial killer. She's been working for nearly 20 years
not working I know it's not working she's been employed as a serial killer for like for like
two decades. They're going back through all of these cold cases going through the data and the
stuff that's coming up on her is just so incredulous. So at the end of October in 2001 in
Budenheim Germany there's a break-in in a trailer right so no murders are committed because it was
empty at the time and her DNA is found on a half eaten cookie on the side of this trailer so they
don't know what she was doing there but they now have a name for this this serial killer this woman
they call her the Phantom of Hell Brune. Now if I was if I was the German police at this point in
the case I would have called her the Cookie Monster because she's killed three people.
I think that the reason they had no sense of humour about it is because she'd killed a police
officer I think I think if she I think if she hadn't they'd have had a lot more fun with the
naming. But Sarah you're saying she didn't exist what's going on? Well well at the moment at the
moment she does exist very much. Sorry that sounded so play school Andy that I think Sarah's justified
in The Lady Bird with a Hat. But what happened? So it's completely incredible at this point they
now have a whole room of police officers who are just completely focused on catching her they also
call her the woman without a face because also so far they have no witnesses. Why wait a minute how
did she eat the cookie if she didn't have a face? This is why she's so mysterious. So
so the woman makes no sense she's killing she's robbing she's snacking and there's no consistent
MO and by 2007 she is now in another country she is in Austria robbing an optometrist and now
because her crimes have gone into Austria they actually have different rules in terms of what
they can do with DNA and so they find out that this woman is of very likely of Eastern European
descent. So between 2003-2007 the phantoms DNA is found at over 20 burglaries or motorcycle thefts
they've got a reward of 300 000 euros for her capture and over 16 000 hours of overtime have
already been paid for the police force and I've also I looked at some of the press from the time
so this is this is from 2007 now this was quite a big deal because they found her DNA on a syringe
that was half full of heroin so perhaps she was also an addict did that was that why her
perspire was so unpredictable such an old story isn't it you start on the cookies and then you
just work your way up to the really hard stuff or maybe because you're so I don't know if heroin
gives you the munchies but maybe that's why she was like I'm busy I'm busy robbing but also I would
love a biscuit so this is from Time Magazine in 2009 the phantom was not only a brutal killer
suspected of committing six homicides but also a common thief she had been involved in a car
dealership robbery and a school break-in but in both cases others convicted of those crimes
denied her existence no one had ever seen her no security camera had ever captured her image
but when witnesses described her they sometimes said she looked like a man so this is what those
so this is what those police are dealing with right so this criminal is this eastern European
woman who looks like a man is so incredible at her job and that and everyone is so scared of her
that even people who they definitely know were in the same place as her doing the same crimes
they're like no no no there was no woman what woman are you talking about um it's crazy it's
like Kaiser Soce it's like this mythical stupor boss that everyone probably thinks they're working
under exactly that like so who is this woman it's starting to sound to me like she doesn't exist
where was the clue was it in the original fact where Sarah said she didn't exist
so the story ends in 2009 they found the burned body of a male asylum seeker they took his DNA
in an attempt to identify him and their results had a hit on the database it was the phantom
of Hel Brune they found him but the DNA is definitely female so they've got this man
who's been killed but then the DNA is coming up as this definitely definitely female DNA
so obviously I've written what the fuck was going on was probably what the police said in that
task force like what the hell is this and that's when they realised that this must be a
contamination all of the places that had had shown up the the phantom of Hel Brune's DNA
the cotton swabs that are used to take DNA traces they um they all came from exactly the same factory
in Bavaria where they employed Eastern European women and the reason that this had been allowed
to happen was that those swabs were supposed to be for medical use not for forensic police use
so there was never an instruction to them that they couldn't like lick the swabs
I mean they're not licking the medical swabs though are they
no I don't think so I think they're just maybe not having the same you know like air
airtight completely safe things and so yeah it was just this incredible DNA mistake and
there have been other DNA mistakes and do you think Sarah because it's like everyone trusts
DNA so much don't they it's like this basically if DNA says it's right then it must be right and
all of the other evidence pointing to it being wrong must be wrong do you know what I mean
but people who are really scared of DNA it's for that exact reason like so we've had cases in the
UK there's a case I think his name's Adam Scott which you guys might have read about but he was
sent to prison for four and a half months for a crime in Manchester it was a really brutal
crime on a woman and um and he said that he was in Plymouth or Portsmouth he was one of those
places down south he said he said I was definitely there so he he had an absolutely watertight alibi
which they didn't check because they had his DNA on the victim and then after four and a half
months of being in prison and obviously he was he was actually in a paedophile and rapist's
wing of a prison so he's also having like a terrible time um it then turned out that his
crime actually what he'd done is he spat in the street and they'd taken his um saliva and they'd
they'd in the lab they'd confused the samples one from a brutal crime one from one from spitting
and he'd gone to prison for nearly five months now I'm not saying that that's an appropriate
sentence to spend five months in a paedophile wing of a prison for spitting in the street
but I it's not far off yeah I do hate spitting I do but but also I think a lot of premiership
footballers are going to suddenly be in prison oh god can I just ask do we know who this Bavarian
woman is and was she informed of all her crimes yeah she's the she's the phantom of hell broom
did so did we did they track her down I actually couldn't get to the bottom of that I'm sure
she really maybe wouldn't want to be identified yeah there must be data protection issues about
that although although if I was a serial killer uh and I wanted to commit crimes across multiple
jurisdictions across multiple years I would definitely get a job in a factory that packed
cotton swabs and then I would just crack the cotton swabs to where they had been that's a lot
of work and I'd commit my crimes there Andy that's just second novel right there there was a murder
called the time travel murder it was in the 90s and what happened was they found the body
and they took DNA from it and they matched it with someone who had died a few years ago and they
were like how on earth could that happen you know how can you have someone who who died and then
committed the murder and what it was is they've been using the same nail clippers to cut the
fingernails to test right and from now on they always use disposable fingernail clippers whenever
they're taking any fingernail stuff and they always put the clippers in with the clippings
so whenever you take the DNA you always have the item which found the DNA in the first place
I found a case like that as well so this is this is in America in California um so a man called
Lucas Anderson was considered as the main suspect in the murder of a silicone valley millionaire
but what happened was that paramedics had treated him earlier in the day so he hadn't died
but they'd then accidentally transferred his DNA to the crime scene when they attended with the
victim later on they must have thought that's such a coincidence as well god that's so weird that
that bloke we were treating earlier today turns out to have been here murdering someone but I don't
know if it's the same one but there was one that was like that where the guy was being treated because
basically he was blind drunk and they took him into the hospital and obviously all this kind of
contamination happened but then when they arrested him afterwards he was like well I was drunk I might
have killed someone I guess it's pretty bad but you can like if um if you shake hands with someone
for two minutes and then the person that you shook hands with is uh touches a knife then your DNA
will be on that knife that's another great plot that's a great plot line and it's the handshake
murderer um no no no it is two minutes he's when he's very friendly who can you convince to shake
your hand for two minutes I bet Darren Brown could do it that's true I found a DNA related crime this
year that was a good this is a good result for the police but it's not a human one it's the police
in south wales there's just been this year a trial about a missing cow oh yeah um so this cow went
missing very expensive cow cost three thousand pounds it was worth that and um the farmer who had
owned it he suspected one of his neighbouring farmers so they've took blood samples and this
by the way this all happened three years ago and it's come to trial now I imagine there was a very
lengthy pre-trial procedure but they took blood samples they compared with them with samples from
the complainant's farm from the victim's farm and it proved that the cows were related so it's a good
result well that's a good news story yeah no one was murdered and the guy got his cow back
you know what 2020 hasn't been that bad at all
um have you guys heard of soulmate um you're gonna have to give us more context so I've
been looking into lots of different ways that you can you can bust a criminal and obviously it's
from DNA through to looking at prints there's so many different ways and soulmate is a really
interesting thing that's been set up which is they also track the footprints of criminals as
they're leaving and arriving and often you can see the print of the soul of a shoe but you don't
necessarily know immediately what that shoe is a soulmate is a database that has over 31 000 individual
footwear records that quickly helps you to identify so on the spot you can put in the shape you can
put in the logo you can put in the crime scene print basically and it matches it to an existing
type of footwear it's remarkable how they can track down if it's a new shoe they can find out who
bought the shoes in the area and so on yeah andy another one for your novel maybe is like someone
takes some converse and cuts the soul off and then puts them on the bottom of some duck martins or
something oh that's really good different size um some more ideas for your novel andy while we're
still brainstorming so um if you get a bone marrow transplant from someone then your DNA will be the
same as the person who gave you the transplant so that's quite a good one that's wow that's amazing
and also you know um they kind of one use of DNA is to find species in the wild right you might take
a bit of soil and then sequence the DNA and you can tell what animals have been there and stuff
like that well the best way of doing that is not by collecting samples but by collecting stuff
from spider's webs because whenever an animal hits a spider's web they leave some DNA in that web
and so you can take the webs and you can work out what animals live in a forest for instance
so maybe your murderer kind of is running through a forest gets caught in a massive spider's web
and they use that as a as a thing I love that okay so how about this while you're shaking hands with
someone for two minutes right you're the killer um you use that they're distracted by the handshake
and you use that time to inject them with some of your bone marrow right so then they've got your
DNA inside them but you've got their DNA on your hand and then you can go and commit the crime it's
like face off uh but slightly wow but hang on if you if you're able to transfer the bone marrow
as the murderer isn't that all you need to do transfer the bone marrow and then drop them off
outside a police station and they would be busted as you for all the crimes but Andy's just going
for a second level I think I haven't committed the crime yet Dan because I need their DNA on my
hand before I hold them in yeah I think the third level in what you're forgetting is actually
it should be a spider because they've got eight hands they can they can shake hands with eight
people at the same time they can get eight lots of DNA while catching people in their webs and
stealing their DNA and also no one will suspect them because they're a spider and then imagine
how small their fake converse will be oh well guys thank you you've put so much thought into
what is going to be easily the worst novel published okay it's time for fact number two
and that is Andy my fact is that to run a Boeing 747 you need a binder full of floppy disks
okay is that like the key is that the key to turn it on a floppy it's not the key to turn it on no
wouldn't that be nice but this is a fact that's been revealed recently or I mean I think a lot
of people who work in 747s will have known it already but Boeing 747s and in fact a lot of planes
Boeing 747 737s they were products of the late 80s and at that time the most effective way to store
information was with the floppy disk and there was a recently a cyber security firm did a walkthrough
for of a decommission 747 and someone spotted a drive in there and said oh that's a that's a
floppy disk drive that's very old-fashioned now this isn't every 747 some of them will have
been updated by now but it is still quite a few of them wow didn't we have a very similar
discovery a few years ago about trident yes yeah yes the nukes were all uh well certainly
american nukes were all on floppy disks I think until like only last year or something right
the american ones yeah it's amazing it's it's terrible it's kind of terrifying and it's kind
of terrifying because I guess you know as long as you have the equipment to read these things
does it even matter what there are no exactly I like the idea of the old-fashioned technology
because I like I always really liked clippy the microsoft paperclip and I really like the idea
that he might be just like popping up on things I was like hello it looks like you're trying to
launch a nuclear missile and so Andy what do they use these I read I think that they have like the
details of where the airports are and the flight paths and things like that right yeah exactly and
there is a problem though because these disks they they can store I think a standard like three
and a half inch floppy disk can store about 1.4 megabytes on it give or take um but the database
is that they are loading onto the planes are getting a bit bigger and sometimes you have to
load up to eight disks in sequence and get all the information off them and onto the plane wow
but there might be a bad disk and you might have loaded seven floppy disks with the stuff on
and then you find one of the disks is flawed or corrupted in some way and then you need to start
all over again it'd be a bit disconcerting if you got through seven of the floppy disks and
you had to start again if I was a passenger and I heard an announcement saying from the captain
apologies this flight is going to be taking off late the floppy disks are not respond does anyone
have floppy disk number eight for the London two Barcelona route just on the off track do you know
that Tim Berners-Lee used to go door to door with the internet on a floppy disk no yeah
in order in order to because the big problem obviously when you were telling people about
how the internet would work is that you would need to show them but the reason he invented the
worldwide web is because computers weren't talking to each other if he'd sent them something
their computer was running on different systems it wouldn't necessarily translate it so he had on
a floppy disk in his computer which he would carry around with him he would go to different places
and show them the first website the original CERN website that he'd created and it lived on a floppy
disk and there's a project that's going on at the moment where there's a guy who works at CERN
he works a couple of offices down from where Berners-Lee worked and he's trying to preserve the
earliest bit of the internet where we have the first websites and so on and the very first website
is missing which is the one that Tim Berners-Lee created wow that's very cool and what we don't
know where the earliest one is we don't know if they're convinced it's out there somewhere they
think that there's a disk out there and it was lost at some sort of conference in California
one night uh someone disappeared with this and so it should be out there still there's a hunt
going on they've asked the globe that's a job for the work experience kid isn't it can you just go
through these five billion disks one of them should have the first website on it if there are any
pilots listening can you just have a little look around the cockpit if there is there is a spare
disk just check what's on there I would think that the work experience kid wouldn't even know
what a floppy disk was did you see this survey in 2018 that asked children under the age of 18
what each of these things are so they showed them like a floppy disk and a teletext or a postcard
or whatever and 67% of children didn't know what a floppy disk was yeah I think that's fair I think
that's fair I think it would be higher for things like the mini disk which um we have an extensive
mini disk collection at the family home and yeah well you know my parents got really into
storing things on on mini disks which didn't take off spoiler sorry it's weird isn't it that
basically everything that we use now is just going to become obsolete and it doesn't even matter
what kind of things we're saving or whatever it's all in a hundred years time no one will be able
to read any of it it's not like a book where you can everyone will always be able to read the book
well maybe not always but for a long time they will be able to it's like they've come up with a
new way of storing data on like a little quartz thing and it'll last for 13.8 billion years it
lasts forever but of course the problem is that in about 20 years no one even know how to access it
it's going to look like a bit of rock yeah I find that really interesting it'd be really cool though
if like the next rosetta stone is literally a little stone oh wow yeah it could be like the
next rosetta stone they get a usb stick and a mini disk and a floppy disk and they're like how do
we get the data out of this one it's a bit like getting the data out of that one and stuff um
James just on what you're saying there the bbc in 1986 they made a what they call it digital
doomsday book okay so I'm not sure if it was a copy of the real doomsday book or if it was
an example of what civilization was like in 1986 but they made it on an acorn computer
and they used a video disc player so for the storage device anyway 13 years later by 1999 it was
completely unreadable and a team of researchers had to spend three years developing the software
to access something from 1986 oh my god so yeah it's a problem it's cool though there is a lot of
floppy disk archaeology going on which is quite fun so um for example andy warhol a lot of art of
andy warhols is saved onto floppy disks that we don't have and I think it originates with there
was a party that yoko ono threw for shawn lennon when he was young just after john lennon had died
and at the party was andy warhol and one of the guests was steve jobs and steve jobs brought
him the original apple mac computer as a present and he was showing shawn lennon the paint function
on it where he was drawing and andy warhol spotted that and went over and started doing his own
drawings on it and he was fascinated by it and that led to a whole thing of andy warhol doing
original art purely on his his apple on paint or on another computer sorry wow unpack was on paint
wow that yeah and they say he saved them to floppy disks we never published them and so people
have been finding lost andy warhol art on all these floppy disks that are kept in his archives
are going through all the floppies god he might have the original internet yeah he might do i've
got just one more thing on floppy disks which is about prince um oh so cool yes the artist prince
the musician prince prince we all know who i'm talking about when i say prince um so you may remember
in 1993 he changed his name to a symbol which he called the love symbol and it was a combination of
the you know the male and female symbols symbols with the arrow and the cross and things um and it
had entered his consciousness during meditation and so obviously he wanted to get it out there
but the thing is nobody knew how to print it and so his management warner brothers they did
put it up online as well but they also sent out floppy disks of the symbol to various magazines
saying this is what you have to call prince now this is his name um and so yeah that was how they
distributed the new name of prince that's really cool yeah i think he did it also because he was
very annoyed with his management um yes because he had a lot a lot of beef with them he had 500
songs that he wanted to release and warner brothers said that might flood the market for prince songs
just a little bit could you not do that and so he was furious about that and as a result he changed
his name to that um i got one tiny thing which is referencing back to our first fact which is
that um there was an american serial killer who was um they were on the hunt for him and they were
reaching out to this guy to communicate with him and the guy asked out in various channels whether
or not he could communicate with them not in person but via floppy disk and they said yes to that
and they did that by putting it in a newspaper by saying rex it will be okay as a message to him
but they said he couldn't be tracked wasn't that the thing as in yeah yeah it'll be completely
anonymous if you send us a floppy disk exactly he was asking will this be okay will i be will
it be anonymous and they said yes anyway they he sent in the floppy disk they were able to trace
it back to his church and then um they called him this is extraordinary and he was furious how did
they catch him because they used they found out that he'd used the floppy disk on a particular
library computer yeah something like this and they said who's who's a member of the library and it
turns out he was i think ahead of a church yeah yeah they like so basically they lied to him he
said that they won't you can't trace computer like geographic information via floppy disk and they
said no you can't but they they can yeah and he was really annoyed with them for febbing about that
when he murdered multiple people yeah lying is also against the law andy yeah is it yeah you don't
expect the police to be also criminals it's like you can't trust anyone anymore why they're called
floppy disks when they're not floppy i'm so glad you asked james they should actually they should
be called stiffies in south africa they're called stiffies aren't they yes are they it's because
the very original ones but i think also if you're on an aeroplane and you hear the captain saying
there's anyone seen my stiffie then that's going to be even more worried isn't it okay it's time
for fact number three and that is james okay my fact this week is that in the 1920 us election
which was the first after women got the vote in america only one woman in the whole of georgia
managed to cast a vote um so this is the 19th amendment uh it was ratified in august 1920
and it granted women the vote but the election took place on the 2nd of november so it's only
a few months later and most of the states kind of facilitated the new voters like they came up
with ways to make sure that people could register in time but mississippi and georgia especially
were so against the idea they were so massively against the idea of women voting that they tried
to make it as difficult as possible for women to vote and in georgia they said you had to be
you had to have registered six months before the election in order to cast a vote and obviously
six months before the election they hadn't ratified the law yet but luckily there was one lady called
mary jara white who somehow on april the first signed her name on her poll tax and also registered
to vote at that time no one's quite sure how she managed to do it the time traveling vote
it's so strange because it seems like she shouldn't have been allowed to do it but
whoever was organising it um allowed her and she was allowed to vote in november and she did
but she voted for the losing candidate but she still managed to vote i like i like the idea that
they were like um or what harm can she do she's silly idea or let us sign she'll never be able to
actually use our vote yeah also april first not the best day to sort of have what looks like a prank
a woman finally voting yeah to know if you'd believe it oh do you think that's what she
was doing in april fools and her husband she came home like guess what i've got the vote
and then at midday she's like ah got you um yeah but georgia um at the time uh 58 percent of the
population of georgia were baptists and um the baptist religion uh certainly then is still now
but certainly then it was very much against women being allowed to do anything they were
subservient to the men the men organised the family uh and the women just if they had any
influence they were supposed to influence their husbands and then their husbands would influence
society um georgia's constitution said that females are not entitled to the privilege
of the elective franchise nor can they hold any civil office or perform any civil functions
and there was only one position in office that they were allowed to hold and it was state librarian
if librarian was the only job that i was allowed and i was to be subservient what i would do is cut
the last page out of every single novel in the library and then i would like fuck you men oh my
god imagine getting through all the way through and the second novel and not finding out that it
was a spider after all all the reveals are on the last page in this novel as well i'm really
patting it right under the end um i was looking into sort of other examples of uh women voting
early or sort of other earliest women to vote in various places um this was a really weird thing
after the american revolution for three decades in new jersey women and men had exactly the same
voting rights and women were allowed to vote not in national elections but in new jersey they could
and um and they did vote so that the people have been looking through old electoral lists and they
found lots of women's names in some places it's not 50 50 but it's up to about 15 percent of voters
were women uh there and it was um it was racially equal to as whether you were black or white and
then um it was restricted in 1807 to white men it was seen as some kind of oversight that had happened
because there were all these charges of uh the people said there were petticoat electors
which is women who'd been manipulated you know they they couldn't possibly know make an informed
decision about who they were voting for um so that was one supposed problem with the system
and the other problem was apparently men putting on dresses to vote and then voting six or seven
times for the same person i'm manipulating the vote that way which i would have thought would
make you more conspicuous as a as a voter it's not clear to me how that helps yeah and how come
they're not petticoat manipulators if they're dressed as women surely that's also yeah yeah andy
again i i'm not saying that i approve of this lockdown that happened on i'm voting but i think
that's amazing that that was such an early sort of aberration there yeah again not aberration in a
bad sense as an aberration a positive aberration from the norm but actually before 1920 there are
a few different states that allowed women to vote so uh wyoming had full women's suffrage from 1869
but the reason they did that is because they wanted to attract single women to the state
really yeah they had a lot of kind of migrant male workers who were working in wyoming and they
thought well how can we get more women here well let's let them vote they should have done what
nightclubs did in Essex on a friday which is make it free hooch free hooch for ladies in groups they
don't have a man with them what what is what is hooch Sarah oh you're so young what hooch is
no it's not young what it's poshness um so you remember alco pops uh yeah yeah yeah so so hooch
was kind of one of the original mass marketed uh it was it was a lemon flavor drink uh so like uh uh
i guess that and it was marketed towards women okay well i like hooch as well okay but i mean
when i say marketed towards i absolutely don't mean that it was supposed to be in a feminine drink
but it was like a if women don't like the taste of beer then you've got this now sweet drink you
can drink out of a bottle at a nightclub actually i quite liked watermelon bacardi breezes as well
so maybe i was just of course you did you've got a heart taste buds
and the other state which had full women's suffrage um at the time was utah and the reason they did
it is because they wanted to show the rest of the country that the women were not oppressed by the
practice of polygamy and they're saying no no but look they can vote they can vote yeah i read about
this and they also didn't they hope that women would vote for um the the non-church leaders so
they would perhaps this this was a way of ending the practice of polygamy was to allow women to
vote and then they would vote against it unfortunately they kept voting for it and then
people said all right well let's take the vote away from women in utah after all so backfired
but that was the thing wasn't it they they sort of worried that once women were given the vote
that it was a sort of useless vote anyway because of the nature of the relationship between husbands
being this dominant character in the relationship they would only vote for what the husband told
them to vote for anyway so it was a sort of it was a canceled out vote in terms of if they'd go the
other way which is really interesting because there's been recent polls that show that had it not been
for the voting of women in recent elections in america between 1968 and 2004 republicans would
have swept every single presidential race in that period uh when they broke it down and looked at it
yeah so interesting but also that's why it's so important that voting is secret because then of
course even if you did have somebody oppressive in your household you can always say oh yeah i voted
for exactly who you told me to but you still have your autonomy and your freedom to cast the vote for
you yes all of you believe if all of your wives are telling you to vote one way you've got to have
the freedom to say yeah of course yeah i love the idea that the women in utah were like why would we
get rid of polygamy i don't want a husband all to myself god just spread him out between i only
have to see him once every eight days when the 19th amendment was passed um the president at the time
was woodrow wilson but woodrow wilson had had a stroke um in october of 1919 and actually his
wife was the de facto president of america around that time so the doctors came in kind of secretly
and didn't really want anyone to know that he was really sick uh and they said he said well
obviously woodrow wilson can't really do anything but what we're going to say is maybe edith wilson
can kind of run everything on the sidelines and he can kind of just be there and not do any press
and stuff like that so technically or not technically but de facto lee um the president of the united
states when the 19th amendment was passed was edith wilson female i knew it was suspicious i knew it
was suspicious well on the other hand um she was very much anti suffragettes i think possibly
because she had to be uh and because you know obviously they were fighting against the president
at the time but um she called the suffragettes the devils of the workhouse so yeah that's reverse
psychology that's how you that's that's how you get yourself into a powerful position no no that's
the last thing i want to say got it have you guys heard of um the suffragette cookbooks that were
published in the usa no this is very weird so you don't associate um the suffragist movement with
you know the home economics thing and and publishing cookbooks but this is exactly why
they were published so the the kind of stock impression or uh that was given by opponents
of the suffragette movement was that you know these women were neglecting their families
they were letting their children go hungry they weren't looking after the home so the the movement
got together and published lots of um cookbooks with kind of suffragette recipes and um they were
quite they were quite good one of them was for emergency salad which is one part onion to
nine parts apple with any dressing that's the salad so how bad is this emergency you're going to eat
an onion um yeah and so these books had lots of stuff in one of the one of the women inside
there was alice bunker stockham who was the uh only the fifth female doctor in the usa and she
was openly pro masturbation for men and for women alike which was her that was her big thing was
this is part of the recipe he did say any dressing i don't know if if one of my criticisms of the
suffragettes was that these women aren't neglecting their domestic duties i don't think the apple
onion salad would convince me otherwise that's a good point i think that would be my proof of
life look at what these lazy bitches are calling it dinner it's an onion and an apple you're
kidding me i want lasagna i didn't realize what an influence the british suffragettes had on the
american ones um i've read a few articles about this and it's so for example emeline pankhurst
did tours of america talking to huge groups of people about the the fight for women's rights
and she played madison square garden which as you know we're all performers here like what a gig
madison square garden yeah do you think that was already like i've broken america exactly she
didn't fill it she had 3000 people there but i mean that's that's as big a gig as you know the three
of us from fish have ever played that's you compare those sorts of things as a fish to the
suffragette movement to the usa can i just say also dan we we played 3300 at the um hammer smith
apollos so slightly more actually than the pankhurst yeah okay what is the capacity of madison
square gardens it's it's over 30 000 i think oh okay so actually she did she did really badly
she definitely tanked it maybe she said it's socially distanced
yes spanish fluv yeah gotta be careful yeah sorry it's 19810 just to just to lessen the bombing
of the sales for her um no but that is that is that that's the depressing thing when you get the
email every sunday with your ticket sales and she's sending out loads of tweets like plenty of tickets
left bring your friends two for one can't find out about british feminism there'll be a free emergency
salad for everyone who buys a ticket okay it's time for our final fact of the show and that is
my fact my fact this week is that there is a species of japanese water beetle that survives
being swallowed by a frog by crawling through the frog's body and escaping out of its anus
now wow this is amazing it's the first documented example of prey doing this through a predator
escaping via the digestive system it has to literally crawl all the way through the digestive
system and make its way out the back and it's um it's a thing that was discovered at kobi university
where a frog was put into this enclosure see-through box and this water beetle was in there
water beetle got swallowed and there was nothing for 115 minutes and then suddenly you see and
there's videos online you can watch crawling out of the bumhole of this frog is this full
water beetle that's covered a bit in feces you can't really see that but they tell you it is
and it just wanders off and we've never seen this before so it's very exciting i'm a bit
i'm a bit worried that you sold that so well that you could go online and watch a video of a beetle
crawling out of a frog's anus covered in feces that probably no one's listening now they've
probably all gone to watch it oh that's true okay well welcome back to the show you've seen it now
amazing isn't it um so yeah so uh this is um this is a guy by the way who experiments a lot on
the defense mechanisms the defense mechanisms that he says are sort of impossible defense
mechanisms that you could not predict and he's found a number of things that are really interesting
a bombardier beetle being swallowed by a frog will eventually be vomited back up because of an
explosion of chemicals inside he's he's responsible for us documenting all that stuff and this is his
latest discovery we should say this guy's name he's called Shinji Sugiyura and he's an ecologist
at Kev University and he's got loads of form on this as you say Dan it's unbelievable
and so he he he wanted to test properly because the frog doesn't have teeth when it eats the beetle
so that's partly why the beetle survives um but i say it's a really big part of the reason oh yeah
yeah they happen i because i feel like all the animals who can't escape from bum holes or from
mouths like it is because they've been chewed up by the the the person or the animal eating that
it's not because they haven't evolved to be clever enough no no you're right it's yeah it's a major
part of the success strategy make sure you're eaten by someone which has no teeth um but he
wanted to test how they do it and so he took some of the beetles that he was going to be testing on
and he glued their legs together with sticky wax so basically he turned them into harry houdini
beetles and then he let them be swallowed by the frog and those ones uh were immobilized as it were
and those ones did not manage to make their way out so his hypothesis at the moment is that
what they're what they're doing with when their legs are free and they're swallowed is that they're
using their legs not only to propel themselves through but to hammer on the sphincter of the frog
and and convince it to expel them i read it as tickle the cloacal opening rather than hammering
right i may have sexed it up a little bit i'm sorry for you know sorry that andy sexed it's
hammering over tickling is more sexy well it depends how it depends how you want to kind
of anthropomorphise the beetle is it terrified it's going get me out of here or is it going oh
this is fun i really don't like this hypothesis where he's like i wonder if things are harder if
your hand comes oh yes it turns out it's actually more difficult to do things it's interesting
though because the tickling at the end almost suggests that that's a bit of information that's
passed on to all the beetles that once you get to the end the way to open the magic gate is there's
a little tickly thing and you've got to tickle that that sounds to me more like that's you have to
have inherent knowledge whereas the hammering can we use the technical words like anus rather than
magic gate we tell you this every week dan what you just said sounded like what used to happen
in like just seventeen and more magazine it's like if you want your guy to speed up there's a magic
button up he's gone tickle the magic gate has very different overtones to hammer on the anus
yeah it's a terrible children's book but yeah the hammering sounds more like the right hypothesis
i would say it's sort of just uh i'm at the end i'm trying to keep going it's like when you know
when you're running out of seconds at the crystal maze get me out you know it's that kind of moment
but also presumably if you've been struggling all of the way down through the frog's body anyway
like you would still be moving there it's just that because because human beings have two sphincters
don't we we have kind of one that we have no conscious control over and one that we do have
conscious control over and and so obviously if there's movement in a part of your body where
it's kind of automatic you would just then feel the need to go to the toilet yeah it's a way yeah
it's how you can have emergencies because the the non the part of the your sphincter you don't have
conscious control over will be like right i'm ready to go and then the conscious part goes oh my god
this is an emergency situation why did we why did we evolve to have a dumb sphincter and a smart
sphincter i think maybe it's a safety thing as in it might there might be scenarios where it's more
dangerous to draw attention to yourself yeah if you're trying to stay very quiet and avoid a predator
and then yeah yeah which doesn't make sense because actually it's a fantastic weapon to
have to hand yeah if you are in danger what just randomly pooing with no no because then you could
just throw you could just throw it at the lion or whatever or the the or the bad monkey
so just very quickly on the rest of this study so the really interesting thing is we
we do know of other animals that pass through the digestive system of another animal right
there are a few of those but what is really interesting about this is the fact that we
we think that they're actually actively crawling through there and the reason that we know that
is because like you say they he salitates his legs together or whatever glued the legs together
but also that the bugs can get out with as little time as like six minutes whereas normally it would
take a couple of days for a frog to digest its food but they can get out there in six minutes
six minutes is the real that is the real crystal maze thing isn't it yeah imagine eating a meal
completely unaware and then feeling terrible and realizing that your meal is still alive
and it's yeah it's got a destination in mind there is a beetle called the coffee berry borough
that lives exclusively on coffee beans but it can't eat caffeine so it only eats coffee but
it doesn't like caffeine and the only way they can do it is they have a special bacteria inside them
that kind of deals with the caffeine and if you take all the bacteria out of it out of this beetle
by giving it antibiotics or whatever it'll die because it can't can't deal with the coffee
so it only likes to eat science is so awful and if you and if you glue all their hands together
no they can't even pick up anymore coffee beans what's an interesting science experiment
yeah you're right i mean how are you going to learn things but at the same time
for the individual coffee berry borough why can't we just all appreciate life's mysteries
have you guys heard of the epomis beetle in fact i i i don't think we've mentioned this before
again frogs pry on it uh the frog bites it but at the moment where the frog bites it this beetle
lover sinks its teeth into the frog's tongue right and then it starts releasing enzymes
which melt the frog's flesh and this oh my god this goes on for a few days unfortunately for the
frog and the frog is just stuck there with what it thought was its lunch and it's slowly being eaten
by its lunch it's basically it gets turned into a straw through which the beetle lover is drinking
and eventually the frog is just a part of skin and bones it's dead and the the lava wanders off
so the scientists who were testing this they observed 400 standoffs between these two the
beetle always wins oh my god there was one case there was one case where a toad managed to grab
the beetle and quickly swallow it and then it started looking a bit peaky two hours later it
threw up and then the beetle ate the toad oh my god and andy can you let me know is there
anywhere i can watch this on youtube uh yeah yeah it's funny pranks for toads there's there's another
beetle the male diving beetle it has sperm which uh team up with each other so this is very rare
obviously yeah normally sperm is a kind of um one of those games it's sort of one versus everybody
you know zero sum game i'm yeah like british bulldog it's like british bulldog sorry sarah
came up with a proper academic answer what i was trying to say was it's like british bulldog
so but this is the really weird thing the male diving beetle their sperm effectively do a conga
and they team up hundreds of them and and even thousands of them and they all go in a line or
they sometimes go in a crocodile they'll go in pairs and it's because the female diving beetles
reproductive tract is unbelievably complicated and um the female will often store sperm for
for months or years to fertilize herself later and um the males kind of form a train trying to
just get through to the area they need to be to fertilize the egg um because otherwise they will
just be lost what's in it for the other sperms the sperms at the back of the conga i don't know
i guess but it will probably improve all of their chances of getting there even if they're not the
person at the front i suppose and you all have this very similar genetic material don't you so
you're still passing it on that's a good point but what as as you say what is the point of being at
the back of a conga what's the point of being in a conga well sometimes it splits off and you become
the front that's very stressful i wonder if that happens with these sperms not at the back though
you can't let go at the back that's just a person walking if you're still kicking your legs out to
the side then it's still a conga even if it's just you i've never had that happen to me doing a
conga but i would be terrified that it would i would cling on for dear life to avoid the
responsibility of becoming the king but sometimes the conga sometimes like flips around in a way
you're not expecting and no one has a good enough grip to hold on to the person oh my god or it
goes it goes into a place you don't want to go like it's they start going they think it'd be
funny to go into the toilet so it's like it's a wedding i don't want to go and look at people at
the urinals and i think if they have like very complicated labyrinthine um uh vaginas that probably
that is exactly what we're saying about there will be conga and splits off and things going around and
also getting becoming becoming very tired the energy exerted means that some of them will get
tired at the front and i think it will be a collective yeah it'll still give you a good
chance because that also happens in a conga sometimes you get like a wave of speed don't you
like some of the people at the front go a bit too fast and then some of the slower people can't
hold on and then they become the front of the conga that's very cool i feel like biology is
actually so easy you just use a conga analogy okay that's it that is all of our facts thank you
so much for listening if you'd like to get in contact with any of us about the things that
we have said over the course of this podcast we can be found on our twitter accounts i'm on at
schreiberland andy at andrew hunter m james at james harkin and sarah at sarah pasco
yep or you can go to our group account which is at no such thing or our website no such thing
as a fish dot com we have all of our previous episodes up there as well as links to bits of
merchandise or you could also go to an independent bookshop website and get the new paperback sex
power money by sarah pasco sunday times bestseller uh that's out now do do that we will be back again
next week guys we hope you're all doing well we will see you again with another episode goodbye